[Music]
[Applause]
if your cat isn't happy no one in the
house is allowed to be either and I know
what you're thinking how can my cat be
unhappy I treat it like royalty
lots of belly rubs brushing you name it
but that's the thing
sometimes we cat owners with all of our
affection and loyalty actually do more
harm than good at least that's what I
recently learned and I'm here to spread
the message 11 don't smother them with
love
the day I got max aka my personnal
manipulator I couldn't resist the urge
to show him exactly how crazy I was
about him I took like a hundred pictures
of him to let the world know we're a
crew now well he didn't enjoy being
photographed 24/7 and the same could be
said about most of us humans by the way
and he hated the flash in particular
that blinding light can be too shocking
for a kitty I also couldn't help but
lift him up and cuddle him like a cute
baby instead of giving me a kiss and
nuzzling my face affectionately he
escaped and ran away from me apparently
cats feel insecure when you pick them up
and being hugged is like being trapped
to them it can easily cause stress and
aggression so think twice before
expressing love the human way 10 don't
ignore them I know it sounds exactly
like the opposite of the first point but
you know that's our flow of
contradictions if you don't give your
little one the attention or food that
they want when they want it be prepared
for constant meowing or pawing at your
leg you see cats have their own schedule
that you never really understand and
they like to be the ones who decide when
it's play with human touch when I don't
get Max's hints he jumps on my lap and
insists on being left neglecting your
cat in a more serious way can make them
feel anxious behave pretty aggressively
or ignore
litter box and do their business right
in middle of the room yeah when you get
to know your kitty better you'll be able
to tell what's unusual behavior for them
like constant scratching or abnormal
grooming whether it's excessive or none
at all
when these alarms go off it's a good
reason to take your pet to the back nine
don't clip their nails some cats are
okay with their human clipping their
nails but most won't have any of it if
the problem is that your cat ruins your
furniture and walls with its sharp claws
try using a training or repellent spray
to drive them away from forbidden
objects or give them something that
they're allowed the claw like a
scratching post also declawing a cat
that is having its claws amputated by a
vet yeah it's considered an amputation
is a dying practice and with good reason
it's an incredibly risky procedure and
their post surgery wounds often get
easily infected plus if your cat lives
or gets outside it needs its claws to
protect itself and get out of harm's way
by running up a tree so that's a no-go
eight they don't like belly rubs dogs
want nothing more than a good belly
rubbing sesh but the same can't be said
about cats my max loves when I scratch
his little face or pet his back but his
tummy and tail are strictly off-limits I
found out that a cat's stomach is its
most vulnerable area and protecting it
is a basic instinct so if you go there
don't be surprised if your kitty attacks
your hand with its claws and teeth
ablaze it and even if you rub seemingly
safe areas watch out for any warnings a
cat gives you sometimes when you go too
hard a cat will feel annoyed and
naturally try to protect itself so be
gentle and respectful 7 never make them
take a bath it's a universal truth that
cats with maybe a few rare exceptions
despise water I wanted to give max a
bath but when I read up on it first I
found out that felines hatred of water
goes way
way back you see your house cats
ancestors lived in Europe Africa and
China where they weren't exposed to much
water so they didn't have to learn how
to deal with it plus big wild cats like
lions and leopards associate water with
crocodiles so they prefer to stay away
from it
honestly you don't have to worry about
your fluffy friend getting a little
dirty
cats are perfectly capable of grooming
themselves six don't take them for a
ride believe it or not the same animal
that can leap onto a high shelf and
chase a laser around in circles is
actually very prone to motion sickness
so if you decide to take your kitty on a
fun little car ride like dogs love so
much then get ready to clean up the mess
your cat can't ask you to pull over when
it's about to throw up
so don't risk it unless you really have
to take it somewhere plus cats are
extremely territorial and your home is
actually your cat's home at least that's
the way he sees it and cats don't like
to leave their little Kingdom so car
rides can be emotionally stressful as
well when you do have to take your kitty
somewhere in the car always put him in a
carrier at least they'll feel a little
more protected from this unfamiliar
environment that's all movie and bumpy
and makes his stomach hurt 5 keep them
away from loud noises you might love 4th
of July fireworks but your cat not so
much
in fact max doesn't like any loud noises
whether it be honking horns the vacuum
hair dryer and so on why because it
sounds like danger to a man sends him
into a frenzy he wants bolted into the
other room when I dropped the spoon on
the floor before don't dress them up
been there done that and totally failed
to put the cute little kitty outfits max
just hated the little tuxedo I got him
for special occasions he couldn't even
walk once I put it on him cats are way
more like their ancestors that lived in
the wild those kitties clearly didn't
like feeling something against their fur
striking their freedom of movement yeah
just don't even go down that road three
they don't need your hairstyling
services there are cats that are fine
with getting brushed but max is
definitely not one of them how do I know
well it's kind of hard not to get it
when the mere sight of a brush makes him
hiss and get super-anxious
however if you do see knots or mats in
your Kitty's hair definitely get rid of
those you'll save your cat from the pain
and other nasty things that come with
knots
such as fleas ticks and rashes - they
just hate strangers this includes both
unfamiliar cats and humans cats see any
other creatures of their kind as
competition for food toys and love they
get used to other cats in the household
and recognize their own pack members but
they won't tolerate outsiders as for new
humans they're not welcome either since
they bring about change which cats see
as a potential threat I mean we've all
seen the videos of cats being spooked by
cucumbers right it's not about the
cucumber itself but that they've never
encountered it before and it appears so
unexpectedly new smells new sounds and
new faces will all make your kitty want
to run away and hide so make sure it
does have its own safe haven for retreat
max has his own cardboard box no one
else is allowed to visit I respect his
privacy and he pays me back with some
purse every once in a while
1 don't meow at them even though cats
meow at humans and not other cats they
don't expect you to meow back I learned
from National Geographic that cats
vocalize to get your attention I'm
pretty sure I can't even distinguish
between different types of meows oh and
max wants food water a clean litter box
or just some cuddles but if you try to
meow back your kitty will be really
confused well not unless you speak
fluent cat that can express yourself
clearly which of these no no's came as
the biggest surprise to you
sound off in the comments below remember
to give this video a like share it with
your friends and click subscribe to
always stay on the bright side of life
[Music]